To do.md, before:

# Todo
[ ] - Implement kripke structure
	[ ] - Graph
	The graph will have outgoing and incoming edges - might in reality only need incoming edges, but hey let's see
	[X] - Set
	A simple set datastructure, due to the uncertain natura that I might
	need to modify the graph, I cannot assume a linear dense mapping.
	If I want to do a linear dense mapping optimization, then I might want
	to make sure each graph has its own bimap of atoms and bimap of States.
	[ ] - SAT solver
	The sat solver will get an allocator that holds its calculations and an
	allocator which holds the result of the calculation. It returns an
	arraylist. In retrospect I wish I did not make a Set struct and just
	made it all arrays with the criteria that they have to be sorted, I have
	to do a lot of unpacking and repacking now.
[ ] - User friendliness and user testing
	[ ] - Make it able to read txt files with specification for states,
	edges and atoms
	[ ] - Run formulas interactively
		[ ] - First iteration, make unambigous prefix notation
		AX(EX(AND(IMPLIES(...))))
		[ ] - Second iteration, make proper logic notation for user
		friendliness.
	[ ] - Add edges interactively
	[ ] - Produce graphviz dot format files that can be made into graphs
		Can us below interactive link for it
		https://dreampuf.github.io/GraphvizOnline/#digraph%20G%20%7B%0A%0A%20%20subgraph%20%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20style%3Dfilled%3B%0A%20%20%20%20color%3Dlightgrey%3B%0A%20%20%20%20node%20%5Bstyle%3Dfilled%2Ccolor%3Dwhite%5D%3B%0A%20%20%20%20a0%20-%3E%20a1%20-%3E%20a2%20-%3E%20a3%3B%0A%20%20%20%20label%20%3D%20%22process%20%231%22%3B%0A%20%20%7D%0A%0A%20%20subgraph%20%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20node%20%5Bstyle%3Dfilled%5D%3B%0A%20%20%20%20b0%20-%3E%20b1%20-%3E%20b2%20-%3E%20b3%3B%0A%20%20%20%20label%20%3D%20%22process%20%232%22%3B%0A%20%20%20%20color%3Dblue%0A%20%20%7D%0A%20%20start%20-%3E%20a0%3B%0A%20%20start%20-%3E%20b0%3B%0A%20%20a1%20-%3E%20b3%3B%0A%20%20b2%20-%3E%20a3%3B%0A%20%20a3%20-%3E%20a0%3B%0A%20%20a3%20-%3E%20end%3B%0A%20%20b3%20-%3E%20end%3B%0A%0A%20%20start%20%5Bshape%3DMdiamond%5D%3B%0A%20%20end%20%5Bshape%3DMsquare%5D%3B%0A%7D
		or just install graphviz









# Backlog

[ ] - rewrite the code such that it actually handles allocation failure and not just ignores it.

Commit message:

Made a Parser and can parse string formulas
Now the next step is to make the graph easily creatable
and from then make it interactible.

To do.md, after:

# Todo
[ ] - Implement kripke structure
	[X] - Graph
	The graph will have outgoing and incoming edges - might in reality only need incoming edges, but hey let's see
	[X] - Set
	A simple set datastructure, due to the uncertain natura that I might
	need to modify the graph, I cannot assume a linear dense mapping.
	If I want to do a linear dense mapping optimization, then I might want
	to make sure each graph has its own bimap of atoms and bimap of States.
	Initially there will be no bimap
	[ ] - SAT solver
	The sat solver will get an allocator that holds its calculations and an
	allocator which holds the result of the calculation. It returns an
	arraylist. In retrospect I wish I did not make a Set struct and just
	made it all arrays with the criteria that they have to be sorted, I have
	to do a lot of unpacking and repacking now.
		[ ] - Make it able to read txt files with specification for states,
	edges and atoms
	[ ] - Run formulas interactively
		[ ] - First iteration, make unambigous prefix notation
		AX(EX(AND(IMPLIES(...))))
			[X] - Make zig able to parse string into adequate formula
			[ ] - make it run interactively
		Second iteration, make proper logic notation for user
		friendliness.
[ ] - User friendliness and user testing
	[ ] - Add edges interactively
	[ ] - Produce graphviz dot format files that can be made into graphs
		Can us below interactive link for it
		https://dreampuf.github.io/GraphvizOnline/#digraph%20G%20%7B%0A%0A%20%20subgraph%20%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20style%3Dfilled%3B%0A%20%20%20%20color%3Dlightgrey%3B%0A%20%20%20%20node%20%5Bstyle%3Dfilled%2Ccolor%3Dwhite%5D%3B%0A%20%20%20%20a0%20-%3E%20a1%20-%3E%20a2%20-%3E%20a3%3B%0A%20%20%20%20label%20%3D%20%22process%20%231%22%3B%0A%20%20%7D%0A%0A%20%20subgraph%20%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20node%20%5Bstyle%3Dfilled%5D%3B%0A%20%20%20%20b0%20-%3E%20b1%20-%3E%20b2%20-%3E%20b3%3B%0A%20%20%20%20label%20%3D%20%22process%20%232%22%3B%0A%20%20%20%20color%3Dblue%0A%20%20%7D%0A%20%20start%20-%3E%20a0%3B%0A%20%20start%20-%3E%20b0%3B%0A%20%20a1%20-%3E%20b3%3B%0A%20%20b2%20-%3E%20a3%3B%0A%20%20a3%20-%3E%20a0%3B%0A%20%20a3%20-%3E%20end%3B%0A%20%20b3%20-%3E%20end%3B%0A%0A%20%20start%20%5Bshape%3DMdiamond%5D%3B%0A%20%20end%20%5Bshape%3DMsquare%5D%3B%0A%7D
		or just install graphviz









# Backlog

[ ] - rewrite the code such that it actually handles allocation failure and not just ignores it.
